It's time now for us to take a look at creating the materials of our scene but to do that we really
need to see how the scene is going to look when it's going to be rendered or at least a rough approximation.
And if I come down here to the viewport shading I can switch to rendered here.
And if we look at that you can see it's kind of dark.
We've got a little bit of light coming in through the hole in the ceiling but that's about it.
We would have trouble setting up materials in this kind of a lighting situation.
So let's go back to the textured view here.
And let's think about putting a light in here.
One of the things I like about the cycle's render engine is that you can make a material light.
It's pretty simple to do and it looks pretty good especially for this kind of work when we're setting
up materials.
So to do that what I'll do first is just create a polygon plane.
So I'll come over here click plain and move this out into the sea and make it a little bigger.
Move it up into the scene and what I want this to be is a light source.
So I'm just going to move it to the side here.
So I'll go to my top view with the seven key and wireframe with the Z and I'll move this around and
place it maybe over here like this.
If you need to switch from solid to textured a quick way to do that is to press alt Z and you can toggle
between solid and texture.
So I've got that placed what I can do now is create a new material for it.
We already have our checker material and that's good.
Let's create a new material here by clicking the New button over here in the materials panel.
And now I'm going to give it a name.
I'll call this light temp and I'll also call this plane in here.
Light temp just so we know what the object is as well.
And if you look down here when you first create a material the type of material is automatically set
to diffuse BSD.
And that's just a standard default non shiny kind of material.
If we click on this we can see a lot of different materials here and we'll be using quite a few of these
as we go through to set up our materials in the scene.
But this one right here a mission that's the one I want.
So I will choose a mission and under-strength Maybe I'll increase the strength of five.
Let's try that and now I'm going to switch from textured to rendered and see how that looks.
So as you can see what it's doing is emitting light into the scene that there's not a whole lot of light
there at this point in time and that's fine.
I'll switch back to the textured view and what I'd like to do is actually scale this down a bit and
maybe move it up.
One thing I try not to do is to intersect a light source into other objects so I'm just going to pull
it up and try and make sure it doesn't cut into another object so I'll switch back to rendered and just
take a look at this.
I could increase this up to 10 or even 20.
Let's try let's try that.
So we're getting some light into the scene.
My concern is how does it look with the mech here.
Zoom in to that the other thing I can do.
Of course I can always increase the intensity of the light.
But the other thing I can do is come over here to the world setting's and turn on ambient occlusion
and what this will do will just give us a general wash of indirect light into the scene.
So click that and now you can see that's a little too much.
Now I'm going to take this factor and take it down to maybe point three.
Let's try that.
Now I don't know if you can hear the fan in my computer clicking on because rendering this kind of thing
in the viewport is pretty resource intensive so you may hear the fan in the background as we're doing
this.
So that looks pretty good to me.
I like the way that looks in the in the render view.
I've taken the Ambien inclusion back down to Point 4 am and I think this is going to be good.
I think I'll go ahead and go with this.
All right.
So I'll switch back to my textured view here and I'll select the main body of the Mac and go into edit
mode.
And right now as you recall this is pretty much all one object.
There are a few pieces that have been kept out of the mix but generally speaking this is all one object.
So what am I to do in edit mode is just hover over the body here and press the L key and that will select
that piece.
I'm going to come over here to the materials panel and just click the plus icon the add new material
button here add a new material slot and then add a new material for that slot.
So click new and there's new material.
Let's call this one metal mech body.
This will be the material for the body the arms and the legs.
Here what we could do is go into rendered view and take a look at that.
And as you can see we can't see it yet.
The problem is is we haven't assigned the material to the selected faces so if I click a sign it will
now assign that new material to the faces that were selected here.
So now we can see the new material in the in the rendered view and it's just this plain white material.
Let's change it to a glossy material and you can see that it becomes almost like a mirror.
Now I'll just increase the roughness just a bit so it isn't quite so reflective.
All right.
So there's our metal.
What we can do is come back over here to the textured view and just begin selecting the upper arm lower
arm upper leg lower leg.
I'm just pressing the L key on the keyboard.
Hovering over each of these and pushing the key.
And if I select each one of these now I can with this metal mech body material selected I'll just click
assign and there we go.
Now if we come back to the rendered view you can see that the material has been added to all of those
as well.
All right.
Let's work on the cockpit here.
I'll switch back and select this and let's create a new material slot add a new material to it and let's
call this glass cockpit and for this let's have this be a glossy material again I'll switch to my rendered
view so we can see it.
And notice I haven't clicked a sign yet so I'll click a sign and there's our new material.
Now it's a little too much like a mirror for me here.
I'm going to first of all change the color of it maybe change it to blue and maybe make it a little
darker here something like this maybe a little more and I'll increase the roughness just a bit.
So it isn't quite so reflective.
So let's move onto the jointness.
Now if I go back to the textured view I can select these joints with the L key.
Each one of these
and with those selected are created new materials slot and in that slot I'll put in new material I'll
call it rubber neck joints and I'll assign the material and then let's go back to the rendered view
and let's just see what we have here.
It's kind of a matt finish for the diffuse I think I'll just take this and bring it down.
So it's a little darker What about the trim here.
Let's take a look at the trim around the cockpit.
Let's look at that.
I will select that piece and let's call this in our new material slot.
Let's call this new material metal mech trim and assign.
And we could also probably assign that same material to say this little vent here.
So I just need to pull this down here and select that metal mech trim and that will add that material
to that object because it is a separate object currently.
So I'll go back to the mech switch over to my rendered view and with the metal mech trim selected I'll
change this maybe to a glossy give it a little bit of roughness so it'll be just a little bit of a different
material than the main body.
Let's work on this jet pack now I'll select it and for this I'll apply the metal mech body I'll just
assign that and for these pieces down here the little jet packs at least for now I'll just design this
metal mech trim to it and assign.
Now keep in mind that all of these materials that I'm creating are preliminary they're just establishing
base materials that we can tweak for each piece of the scene and we'll be going into the node Ed. to
mix and combine shaders to get these materials more the way we want them for final product.
Well there are a few more objects that require materials here on the Mac but also we need to begin working
on the materials for the environment.